In this video, I'm going to show you
absolutely everything you need to know
about animation inside of Final Cut Pro.
And I promise you, if you stick with me
through this video, you're probably
going to learn a thing or two that you
didn't know was even possible.
Real quick, let's cover the basics. How
do you do animation in Final Cut? Well,
you have several different ways. One is
to simply come over to your video
inspector, and you'll see stuff like
your transform, crop, and distort. And
then over to the right of those are all
of these gray diamonds. Clicking those
gray diamonds gives you a key frame. If
you want to delete a key frame, you can
click it again and that will remove it.
But clicking and dragging specific
numbers here on the right side really
isn't the easiest way to animate an
object in Final Cut. So, a much better
way to do so is to use the transform
tool. That can be found here in the
bottom left corner of your viewer. or
you can press shiftt on your keyboard.
Clicking that gives us the transform
tool. And you'll notice if I zoom out
here with command minus, we have this
bounding box. And I can click and drag
my object around. Here in the direct
center is the anchor point. So this is
from where all of the animations are
going to be taking place. So what do I
mean by that specifically? Well, if I
were to come over to the right side and
adjust the anchor point so that's
resting at the bottom of this rectangle,
then I were to adjust the scale, you'll
notice that the rectangle is slowly
scaling in towards that anchor point.
Additionally, if I were to go ahead and
adjust the rotation, our rectangle would
be rotating around that anchor point. So
again, this is what it would look like
if everything was centered. It's scaling
towards the center or it's rotating
around the center. So you can use this
to dynamically enhance your animations
just simply by adjusting where this
anchor point is taking place.
Additionally, we have this little
rotation handle. So I can just click and
drag to rotate our object as much as we
like. And you'll notice that that
bounding box on the outside is also
rotating. To add a key frame, you have
several different options. Like I showed
previously, you can use these gray
diamonds on the right side, or you can
come up here to the top left corner and
click here to add a key frame. By
clicking that, it's going to
automatically add a key frame for all of
the transform variables here on the
right side. You'll notice that we didn't
get any key frames here in our crop tool
or our distort tool. So, it's just
specifically the transform tool that
will automatically get those key frames
by clicking that button. Now, we can
simply move our playhead forward in the
timeline. So, I'll go forward two
seconds. And if I click and drag my
object, Final Cut Pro will automatically
add in another key frame because we
previously had a key frame. So, you'll
notice here in the top right corner that
the position parameter already has this
automatic key frame applied for us. So,
this can be an incredibly fast way to
animate because we just need to move our
playhead forward, move our object, move
our playhead forward, move our object,
so on and so forth. And all of those key
frames will automatically be added in.
Maybe you accidentally added a key frame
that you didn't want. Well, you can
simply come up here to the top left and
we can push this back button and that
will take us back to the most recent key
frame. Or we can of course also push
forward. Once we do that, we can delete
a key frame by clicking this icon here.
And now that has been removed. And
you'll notice we're just down to three
key frames. So pushing play, we have
this really basic animation of our
square just moving around on the screen.
And it's actually quite smooth. But
maybe you don't want the animation to be
very smooth. Well, that's where this
next part of key frames comes into play.
We can simply rightclick on any of these
different key frames and we can change
them over to linear or to smooth. By
default, they will always be smooth if
you're working with the position
parameter. Most of the time, this is a
good thing, but it can be really
annoying. And I know I'm going to get a
comment asking if you can change the
default on this. At this time of making
this video, no, it's not possible to
change the default, unfortunately. What
we can do is just change these over to
linear. And I'll go ahead and do it for
all three of these. And you'll
immediately notice that my lines have
been straightened out. So this is going
to give us a much more jagged animation.
There's going to be no sort of easing to
the object. Another great way to work
with key frames is maybe you're not
happy with the end position of your
object. You might expect that you would
need to be at the key frame point before
making any changes to your object. But
you can actually just click directly on
a key frame and move it around on the
screen. So if you decide that you're not
happy with this end position here, you
can very simply do that. If you want to
take your key frames way further, you're
going to want to start using some bezier
curves. Earlier we had these smooth key
frames. So I'll just right click on
these and change them all back over to
smooth. So, now that my object is back
to these smooth key frames, there's some
really cool things we can do with them.
If I were to push command and click and
drag on this specific key frame, you'll
start to notice that I get these handles
that come off of it. And this is
actually curving the line of our
animation. So, I don't need to go in and
add individual key frames to create this
curved line. We can go ahead and have
Final Cut Pro do all of the heavy
lifting. So, let's go ahead and play
back and see how that animation looks.
It's kind of going along this curve
motion and then at the very end it
plummets down really quite hard. So,
looking at this animation, it's not
quite the desired effect I'm going for.
So, we can go ahead and adjust this
animation. To adjust this animation, I'm
going to push option and click on this.
And you'll see that that's giving me
these two handles for our object. And
because I pushed option, it essentially
broke these two handles. So I'm going to
push and hold option again and click on
this handle. And you'll notice that that
kind of adjusts it. So now I'm working
with both handles. And now I have
released the option key and that's going
to stay in that sort of handle mode. But
then if we push option and click and
drag again, that's going to break them
apart. So we can really adjust this
animation to our liking. And I'm again
I'm not holding down option as I do
this. These two points are just
completely broken because we used the
option key previously. So if you ever
want your two handles to be attached to
each other, go ahead and push and hold
option for the first time and that will
essentially reset it. We could also
adjust this first animation point. Maybe
we don't want to adjust the handles on
this left side. So we could push option
and now they're broken apart. We can
drag that out to our liking. Adjust this
how we want. So, you do have quite a bit
of control when it comes to your key
frames here in the viewer that you might
not first suspect. Now, if we're being
honest, the controls here don't have as
many settings as I would like. I would
love a lot more control over the easing
and final positions of everything and
the actual timing of the animation, but
this is what's given inside of Final Cut
Pro. That said, there is quite a bit
more we can do using the video animation
inspector. To get access to that, you're
just going to find your clip down here
in the timeline, right click on it, and
then select show video animation. You
can also get that with CtrlV. Once we've
expanded that, you'll notice the various
key frames happening here throughout our
timeline. And this is the number one way
to adjust the speed of your animation.
If you find an animation is too slow or
too fast, this is the place you want to
go. To adjust the speed of the
animation, you can just simply click and
drag directly on your key frames. And
you'll notice now if I were to play this
back, the speed is much faster on the
animation. Or if we stretch it way out
and push play, the animation is far
slower. When you need to adjust the
timing of your animation, you definitely
need to jump into the animation
inspector. But there's actually a lot
more cool stuff you can do with this
video animation inspector. If we go over
to the left side firstly, we can
completely disable the animation of our
object. So you'll notice it's not
animating anywhere at all. We can also
go ahead and change the exact parameter
that we're working with because
sometimes you'll want to work with only
the position. Sometimes you only want to
work with the scale. To do that, you're
just going to click on this little down
arrow next to each parameter and we can
change that here. So let's go ahead and
change this over to the scale. And now
we can see that the other key frames
have turned black, indicating that we
can't click on them. So we know where
the key frames are happening in time and
space on the timeline, but we can't
actually access them, which saves us a
lot from accidentally clicking the wrong
key frame. But if I were to come over
here to the far right and click to add a
key frame on our scale, or if we were to
push option K, which is a great way to
do it, we can see that we've created a
key frame here. We can move forward. We
could increase the scale and now those
two animation key frames are happening
here on our timeline. And we can adjust
their timing independently of the timing
of the position key frames. And I do
have just a couple more quick tips for
you when it comes to the video animation
inspector. If you find that a key frame
is just not quite in the right spot,
it's just a frame or two off, and you
don't want to click and drag and try and
get it just right, all you need to do is
push comma or period, and that allows
you to move it in one frame increments.
So, here's comma, and here's period.
Additionally, if you find that you have
an exact position that you want to get
your object back to in a really easy
way, you can simply click on a specific
key frame and you can push option shift
C. So, it's not command C like the
regular type of copying, but you can
copy it with option shift C. And then if
you want to paste that, you can push
option shiftV. And now that will appear
over here. You can even select multiple
key frames at once by holding down
shift. Then we can do option shift C and
option shiftV and paste those. So if you
have a recurring animation, you can go
ahead and do that down here in the
animation inspector. So when it comes to
the transform tools inside of Final Cut
Pro, the rotation, position, scale, that
is about all you can really do. And if
you ask me, it is a little bit
unfortunate. I do think there should be
more tools here inside of Final Cut Pro.
And I'm really hoping that this video is
outdated when you watch it and all those
tools have been added into Final Cut
Pro. That said, there are some hidden
tools inside of this animation inspector
that I think everybody needs to be aware
of and so I wanted to add them to this
video. These tools are more specifically
for effects. Well, one super common
effect in Final Cut Pro is simply
adjusting the opacity of a specific
object. But what we can do is come down
here inside of our animation inspector.
And you'll notice that the opacity has a
different icon that is not available on
these other parameters. That icon
indicates that we can expand this out.
And it gives us some really cool
controls that I wish were available
everywhere in Final Cut. If we click
that, we have now expanded this. And you
can also get that by just doubleclicking
on the opacity line. And you'll notice
that my opacity line is right here. And
I just simply click and drag that up and
down. And that adjusts the opacity on
our object. So one thing we can do with
this little display menu is by pushing
option and clicking to add a key frame.
So I can go ahead and add in multiple
key frames here. And much like the key
frames that you might work with when it
comes to audio, you can do the same
things here. So I just simply click and
drag this down. And now we have this
nice straight line for our opacity. But
additionally, we can rightclick directly
on the line between these two key
frames, and that gives us this submen.
So right now, everything is set to
linear, but we can change this over to
ease, or we could rightclick the other
one and select ease out. Additionally,
coming over here to the right side, we
can click and drag directly on this
handle. And just like with our audio, we
now have this fader handle. So, this is
a super fast and efficient way to add in
a little opacity animation to the end of
your object. We can also use the range
selection tool to quickly add a whole
bunch of key frames. If we push R, get
our range selection tool and click and
drag across here on our opacity, then
drag that down, you'll notice that it's
automatically added in four key frames
for me here in the video animation
inspector. This doesn't just apply for
opacity, but it also applies for a lot
of the other effects inside of Final Cut
Pro when they have this little slider
here. So, what I mean by that is let's
go ahead and look up the 50s TV effect
and I'll apply that onto our object. And
you'll notice that I have this little
amount slider here, which I can adjust.
But on top of that, if we come up here
to the top of our video animation
inspector, we have that same expansion
icon. So, I can go ahead and double
click on that. And now we have access.
We can add in all of the easing. We can
use this handle to fade everything out
here if we want to. And so, that's
pretty much everything you could
possibly need to know about animation in
Final Cut Pro. But if you're like me and
you look at the animation tools in Final
Cut and find them to be quite a bit
lacking, then you have a few options.
One is to simply check out a lot of my
Apple Motion tutorials where I teach all
about animation and how to get it over
into Final Cut Pro. But another super
great option is to check out this
comprehensive list of my favorite
animation plugins that I've made for
Final Cut Pro. So, I'll have a link down
below. They are affiliate links and it's
just some of the animation tools I rely
on so heavily directly inside of Final
Cut. So, if that interests you, make
sure you check out that link. And I'm
going to try and continue to update that
list as I find more and more amazing
animation tools. Thank you again, and I
cannot wait to see you in the next one.
