Final Cut Pro is amazing, but if you've
ever tried to add subtitles, you'll know
how painful it can be. So, today I'm
going to show you how to add subtitles
the easy way in Final Cut. Now, just
briefly, there's basically three main
ways that you can add subtitles to
videos in Final Cut Pro. Number one is
using the built-in captions tool. Now,
this is good obviously because it's
free. It's fairly accurate, but it's
really designed for creating more like
closed caption subtitles, so you really
can't restyle them very well. also quite
difficult to adjust in terms of like the
sentence lengths and all that kind of
stuff. So if you're looking for stylized
captions on things like short form
videos, this is not really ideal. Number
two, you've got external tools. So
there's things like obviously auto
captions on YouTube itself. You can use
third party platforms or other automatic
captioning tools online. But the big
downside to this obviously is that you
have to export your content, upload it
somewhere else, and then redownload,
reupload to YouTube. So it's more
involved. The third way is with plugins
within Final Cut Pro itself, and this is
what I personally recommend. The
downside is generally you have to pay a
bit extra. I personally haven't been
able to find any really good free
subtitling plugins for Final Cut. If you
know of any, please let me know in the
description. But so far, the best one I
have found is the auto captioning tool
from Motion VFX. So, today I'm just
going to show you how I use it because I
actually do think it's the best
subtitling captioning tool for Final Cut
at this point. And this video isn't
sponsored by Motion VFX or anything like
that. This is just honestly the best
solution I've found so far. Okay, so
here we are inside of Final Cut Pro and
this is a YouTube short that I've
already pre-made and I've already got
dialogue in this. I just recently got
the Keyron K4 H. So that sounds good,
but obviously no captions. So the way to
do it with this Motion VFX plugin is
obviously to install the plugin first.
So, I won't go through that in this
video, but once you've installed it,
it'll be here in your extensions tab,
and then it's called M Captions AI. I'll
leave a link in the description. Just
open this up and you'll have this window
here. Now, what you want to do is just
drag the project that you want captions
to be added to into this little
checkered box here. So, I'll just drag
captions tutorial 1 right here. It says
drop file here. Let go. And then, as you
can see, captions tutorial 1 is matching
this project here. And then just click
analyze audio. This will take about 30
seconds depending on the length of your
clip. Mine is about what? A minute and
20 seconds. So, obviously, if it's
longer, it might take a little bit
longer, but won't take long at all. And
while we're waiting for that, you can
see if I turn the favorites off, you've
got all these different presets right
here, which you can choose from. So, if
you just mouse over a preset, it'll give
you a preview of the style of the
captions. Obviously, some of them look a
bit tacky. I probably wouldn't be using
those ones. some kind of cool ones like
this handwritten one. I'm a big fan of
that. But this is finished analyzing. So
that's ready to go. And now we have to
do is just select one of these caption
styles that we like. Double click it.
And that adds it into the modification
area here. From here, we can literally
just drag and drop and add our captions
in. So you just go down here. It says
drag from here and literally drag this
timeline into your project. If we zoom
in, you can see these are all captions
that are ready to go. So, if I play this
back, I just recently got the Keyron K4
H, and I've genuinely been surprised at
how much I've been enjoying it. That's
it. That's literally that easy. If you
want to modify it, I personally really
like this minimalistic caption style.
So, I'm just going to double click that.
And you can change things like the font.
So, I'm going to change this to my
personal favorite, which is lemon milk.
You can adjust the size of the font. So,
I usually like it a bit smaller. You can
adjust the position, so how high or low
it is on your video. And then the text
width is basically how many words you
have in each line. So again, I like to
keep it short. So somewhere around the
20 mark is pretty good. Then I can just
delete this original caption timeline.
And then redrag in the new one. If I
play this back, I just recently got the
Keyron K4 H. And I've genuinely been
surprised at how much I've been enjoying
it. As you can see, it's perfect. Ready
to go. If you do need to modify, if the
AI gets words wrong, all you have to do
is click on that particular caption.
Then here you can modify the text. So
you can say like palm rest for example.
If you need to modify the length of the
caption, the best way I found is to hold
down option, click and drag the caption
above itself and then disable the one
underneath it with V. And then you can
just adjust the length to whatever you
want. The reason I don't modify the
actual caption within this timeline is
because if you adjust the length of
this, it's going to adjust the length of
all the rest of the captions beyond it
and they're all going to be out of sync.
So you have to duplicate it, disable the
original, and then you'll be fine. So,
there you go. I hope that was helpful.
If you do want to check out the plugin,
I'll leave a link down in the
description. It's an affiliate link.
Feel free to use it. Don't have to,
obviously. It will just help support my
channel if you do. Otherwise, if you're
learning more about Final Cut Pro, I've
actually got an online course teaching
you video editing within Final Cut Pro
using the exact same system that I use
to create all of my content. There's a
link to that in the description.
Otherwise, if you want more free YouTube
tutorials on how to use Final Cut Pro,
check this playlist out right
