So, if you've been editing videos for
years, or if you've never edited a video
before, you'll still get something out
of this video. Editing isn't just uh
software and plugins and presets. It's
decision-m. It's it's a bunch of tiny
decisions all stacked up on top of each
other to create a cohesive project. So,
I asked my editing team to show you how
they make creative choices. I gave him a
video of me giving some advice to
creators and then we pass that file from
lead editor to color to graphics to
audio and so you can see how they make
decisions that stack up into the final
result. So while watching this video
look for these four principles that we
use to create highquality videos here at
MKBHD. So first good in good out you
just can't edit your way around poor
planning and execution. Two, focus. What
you cut is as important as what you
keep. Three, don't be boring, but don't
be insulting. There's more to editing
than just cutting really fast. And four,
know your audience. You know, an A+
quality work designed for a six-year-old
won't feel like A+ work to a college
student. So, know who you're talking to.
So, with these in mind, let's start the
process. Let's get right into it.
Beginning with our lead editor, Mariah.
Take it away.
I'm Mariah, the lead editor at MKBHD.
And today we're going to be talking
about two scenarios that every editor
has encountered. One where you have too
much footage and one where you don't
have enough footage. So, let's look at
some recent videos and break it down.
So, first we're going to start with the
robo taxi video which had way too much
footage. So, we're going to talk about
the creative decisions I made to
subtract. Truly autonomous driving is
one of the hardest technological
problems to solve on planet Earth today.
&gt;&gt; We have kind of the baseline of the
structure. The structure is the A-roll,
right? So, him talking, explaining
what's happening, and then the chaos is
everything from onsite. So, the first
thing to do was to go through all of the
hours of footage from the two cameras we
had, sync them up for all the rides, and
then see what happened, what we want to
keep, and what we want to throw away. I
keep drafts of everything. So, ideally,
you want to have everything so you can
always go back and pull something out
later if you change your mind. I like to
color and label everything. That way,
when I'm looking at my timeline, I can
tell if I'm overusing too much stuff or
underutilizing footage that I really
should be using. So, the second problem
I had was actually following the script
too much, which is a weird problem to
have. So, let's take a look at the
difference between the first cut and the
second cut with this. So, this first
robo taxi ride was fascinating.
Okay. Yeah, this is great. Everything's
normal. Robo taxi. Okay.
&gt;&gt; Hello.
&gt;&gt; Hello. Fundamentally, it went totally
fine. The car showed up. We got in. It
drove like a normal person would. And
now,
&gt;&gt; it's probably hard to put your finger on
why this edit just doesn't feel right.
And that's just part of the puzzle. And
it kind of feels like to me that Marquez
knows something that we don't. A lot of
the times I'm my own worst enemy. I'll
be honest, but sometimes Marquez is my
own worst enemy. And so there's a part
in the script where he just has a
section that says intercut commentary
with the Tesla ride and Whimo ride. The
problem with the first couple cuts on
this is I was really trying to force
having him talking in the A-roll with
the B-roll from the on-site shoot.
trying to do present tense and past
tense. There's all these different times
of things happening and knowing when is
the right time for something is really
hard sometimes. So, as the editor, you
know, all the footage, you know,
everything that's happening, but no one
else does. And so, that's why when you
need feedback, sharing it with other
people is really great to get a fresh
pair of eyes, see it from a different
perspective, and understand why stuff
isn't working. With the feedback in
mind, now let's take a look at the
second version.
Okay,
start ride.
So, we arrive in 9 minutes. This is our
&gt;&gt; We've got our feedback. We've moved
stuff around. We've done a little
fixing. But what happens when we
actually need to fully remove a scene
from the timeline?
&gt;&gt; My iPhone
is, I'm pretty sure, still in that robo
taxi that just drove away. How do I get
it back? I'm not really sure how to get
it back. I need to figure this out.
Marquez straight up lost his phone in
one of the taxis while he was there. And
I could have included all of it and it
would have been dramatic and really
funny. And in fact, one of the cars kind
of poked fun at him saying like, "Don't
forget your valuables after the fact."
That would have been really funny. But
does it make sense to put in a video
that's supposed to be like more
informational, like something that's
like very to the point? It was part of
the experience, but does it kind of lead
you astray from what we're really trying
to hone in on? So, when you're trying to
figure out whether you should keep
something in your edit or if you should
get rid of it, really it just comes down
to the value you're proposing to your
audience. Does your audience care about
this or is it not important to what
you're trying to say? So, now let's
transition to a scenario where you have
too little footage.
&gt;&gt; So, the number one or there's I guess
two main ways I can decide if a subject
is worth my audience's time. one is if
&gt;&gt; and so the second video I'm going to
show you is a little bit more
structured, a little more typical for
the main channel. And this is the video
that is going to be passed through all
the stages of post-prouction. You're
going to hear from Ellis, you're going
to hear from Vin, you're going to hear
from like everybody that touched it. For
this video, we wanted to do something a
little bit different. And so we asked
Marquez, "What is something you want to
talk about that you don't think would be
a good video or wouldn't perform well?"
Um, and so he wanted to talk about how
he picks what videos he makes, which I
don't think I've ever heard him talk
about either. What no one tells you is
when you're the editor, you are at the
end of the pipeline. If there's a
problem, you are going to be the one to
have to deal with it. For this one, my
fear when we were talking about it is it
not being visual. And the worst thing
you can do is probably tell and not
show. For this video, we chose to use a
lot of archive footage. And so you'll
see the problem with that immediately.
&gt;&gt; I'm Marquez and this is how I pick what
videos I'm going to make. Two main ways
I can decide if a subject is worth my
audience's time. One is if they have
shown interest in it in the past.
&gt;&gt; Originally, I had jumped straight from
the intro of how we pick what videos to
make straight into the questions and it
just felt really slow. It kind of had no
momentum or excitement. If I'm not
excited and I'm editing it, you're not
going to be excited. if you're watching
it. So, now let's watch the second
version of this intro.
videos I'm going to make. This is the
front glass from the iPhone 6. And so,
here I'm going to show you everything I
learned about what Spot actually is, but
I'll leave you with this. I've got my
upsides and downsides to Vision Pro.
&gt;&gt; So, the lesson from this re-edit is not
to make montages. They're great. They
work sometimes, but ultimately being an
editor is about focusing on clear
communication and problem solving. And a
lot of times you'll be given stuff that
just isn't very good. It's going to
happen. Focusing on your experience and
the tools you have will really just be
the best thing you can do. But
ultimately, there was actually a really
good reason to add the montage to this
video. Something I will never do to you
is I will never lie to you. I will not
pretend this video is something it's
not. And if I was to do a Mr. Beast
crazy montage opener with text and stuff
flying around, I've said it before and I
said it again. I don't like it and I
don't think it makes sense for what we
do. Personally, setting up from the
get-go that this is a clip from 11 years
ago. It's not new. It's not fresh, but
it is a memory. A good intro doesn't
just hook the audience, but it also sets
up the expectation for the viewer, and
that's so, so important. Something else
I did in this video was a really simple
thing and it can really uplift a video
is just adding transitional music. It
helps move things along and provide
context. There are some video
opportunities that have come across my
inbox or my social feeds that are
totally disconnected from like purchase.
&gt;&gt; If I'm treating this like a main channel
video, Marquez does not like having
music typically running for more than
like 20 30 seconds. like he says it
makes things feel like an ad, but in
this case there's no product. So really
like what are we advertising? Usually I
use it as a transitional period to kind
of like segue to your brain that we're
about to switch to something else. So
you'll hear later from Ellis, but he
told me something really important that
stuck with me and that when you're
picking music, it needs to convey
something that isn't already being told
through video. something subliminal,
something to set the tone, the vibe, or
set up expectations for later.
&gt;&gt; I also think YouTube is a treadmill, and
if you try to chase past success over
and over and over, you end up kind of
burning out a little bit. And I think
you should look at what you enjoy making
just as much as what worked in the past
on your channel. So, all of that
&gt;&gt; just kind of a nice wrap-up. Clearly,
this video is not completely done. And
we still have sound to pass off to
Ellis. We still have a bunch of stuff to
do, and we also still need to do the
color, as I'm sure you can tell. So,
you'll be hearing soon from Vin, who's
actually going to take over from here,
and he's going to fix the ugly color.
Thanks, Vin.
&gt;&gt; We sit this close normally.
&gt;&gt; Marquez, what are you editing right now?
&gt;&gt; Uh, I'm editing a video where I ask
everyone to subscribe to the studio
channel. It's going to be a banger.
Super short.
&gt;&gt; Hey, Vinn here, art director for MKBHD
channel. Essentially, color grading is
putting emphasis and deemphasis on parts
of your image to tell the story. So, for
this section, let's talk about prep,
LUTs, and plugins. For this tutorial,
I'm just using Da Vinci Resolve. That's
what I prefer, but you can use any
editor. Premiere, Final Cut, Sony Vegas.
They're all good. Based off of this
clip, you can tell that already before
the L is applied, there is a big blue
cast on the whole background. And that's
because we have two sky panels blasting
at the ceiling. And then we fine-tuned
the hue number. We took a couple minutes
to do that. And we would do camera tests
to see if the hue is correct for the
background. 80% of your image should be
done on camera. And then your last 20%
is color grading. You can't fix bad
lighting in post. It doesn't matter what
camera you're using as long as you're
shooting in log. And if it happens to
have 10 bit codec, that's what really
matters because 8 bit is a little too
small. You don't get as much dynamic
range in post. More data basically means
more flexibility in post. You've
probably seen this acronym a couple
times now on the internet. LUT, LUT. It
stands for lookup table. What does that
mean? No one really knows, but it's
essentially a filter that goes on top of
your footage. On the main channel, we
seem to gravitate towards just using the
regular red rec 709 conversion light
just cuz that's what we're used to. For
Marquez's A-roll, we shot on a Canon
C70. If we apply the L, this is the
default conversion. This is what we saw
on camera. So, right now, this is just
the default L. I generally don't like
using this because it's not catered to
the camera from the R5, R5 Mark II, C70
in the C300 Mark II, literally all of
them shoot clog 2 differently. So Canon
is not just guilty of this. Sony is very
guilty of this. They have too many
cameras and so that SLOG 3 L is going to
look different on all of their cameras
based off of the stock Sony L.
Personally, I don't like using the stock
LTS unless they're from Red or Ari. Most
of the time, I would prefer even a
YouTuber L as an alternative because
they're catered to the camera. So, here
we have a custom L from our YouTube
friend Tyler Stelman. Shout out to
Tyler. His is actually based off Ari's
color space. So, you can tell it's a
little bit more saturated. His is more
uh stylized, so I can't push and pull as
much, but it's already so good that I
don't really want to do much to this.
Based off of this image, he seems a
little bit underexposed. So, you should
have a threewheel editor, and there's an
offset tab, which is like a general
exposure. All your editors should have
that. Plugins can vary in price point.
Some of them are 100, some of them are
a,000. This one I'm using is Dehancer.
It's about 400 bucks for two seats. So,
in this situation, I have the C70 camera
selected and CLOG 2 Cinema Gamut. The
company that made this plugin tests all
their cameras specifically. So, anytime
that you see that conversion done, it's
made for that camera because they all
shoot a little bit differently. I
already like the starting point a lot
better than the stock L. So, for me, I
would just bump up exposure a little
bit. And I already have this done, but I
turn down saturation a little bit. A big
reason as to why this cost $400 is
because of the stylistic effects that
you get along with it. So you have
things like halation that adds red to
the edges on the chromatic aberration.
So any highlight you see has like a
little red flare to it and it can warm
up the image a little bit. Makes it look
a little retro and older. Bloom is
basically your diffusion filter, but you
can dial it in post. It lets you pick
how intense you have it. Um, you can
even pick what kind of camera like film
stock it's replicating. Older cameras
usually bloom harder. So that's why if
you pick 8 mm, he looks really soft. And
if you pick 70 mm, that's a more modern
camera. All of these you can fine-tune
with the sliders and you basically just
pick through a bunch of boxes. It's
pretty easy to use. If you're trying to
achieve a more stylized look, well,
you're going to have to do that during
production because you can't stylize
what's not stylized. Ultimately, color
grading should serve the project itself.
If you don't push yourself in
production, you can't push your image.
So, go ahead and take a risk. As of
right now, this looks pretty good. But
that's only half of the story. Now, we
need to spruce it up with some graphics.
So, let's hand it off to Michael.
&gt;&gt; Hello, I'm Michael. I'm the head of
motion design and I'm excited to walk
you through my process. Let's go ahead
and break down the overlay animation
that I made for this video.
&gt;&gt; So, a mistake I see a lot of newer
creators making specifically is to look
at what works on other channels and then
just try to copy it one for one. I think
that's the worst thing you can do cuz
they don't have a reason to watch the
thing you're making over the thing that
already exists. So, as it turns out, we
lost all of the footage of me talking
directly to camera. So, from here on
out, you will be seeing a little cartoon
version of me that Olivia, our other
animator, so kindly created. Enjoy that.
Probably for something like this, I
probably actually spent more time
developing the flat static graphics in
Adobe Illustrator than I did actually
animating them in After Effects. The
most important part of motion design is
getting the design part right first. So,
for me, what that looks like, yeah, just
building everything in Illustrator
first. Um, everything that you see is
made up of uh vectorzed paths, which
means I can move things independently
and not be worried about losing
information or things being stuck
together without using words um or at
least very many words. Uh, I wanted to
show the abstract concept of something
being viewed on the internet and then
something being viewed on your computer
as a like project creative thing that
you're making. And I felt like the best
way to do that was YouTube and Final Cut
Pro. Um, so what I did was I took a
screenshot of both of those things and I
oversimplified the heck out of it. I
mean, this is what Final Cut Pro looks
like. I mean, maybe that's not a
surprise to most people watching this
video, but um, I was like, what parts of
this make it look like Final Cut Pro?
And I was like, oh, there's a little
play button with information like or the
the time code. Once again, it's like I
could have included all of this and it
would have still read as Final Cut, but
he might have been distracted with like,
is he talking about color grading? Is he
talking about the audio levels? Is he
talking about the effects? Is he talking
about But it's like, no, he was talking
about generally making a project.
Everything I need for this animation has
been built here. So, at this point,
we're we're done with with Illustrator
for the most part, and we're ready to
transfer to After Effects. I use a
sneaky little plugin called Overlord,
just for those who care. It's really
great at porting things over. But to
move on, so one of the first things we
learned in motion design school was the
12 principles of animation, which is
originally developed by Walt Disney. And
a lot of that actually really applies to
simple graphic animation here as well.
The main three principles that I want to
talk about are easing, timing, and
staging. Easing is, I would say, one of
the biggest telltale signs between an
amateur motion design project and a more
professional motion design project. And
really what that means is making
movement feel lifelike and real. So this
is an example of an object moving with
no easing.
It gets the job done. The object moves,
but there's no life to it. It's very
robotic. Here is an example of an object
that um has the easing applied. Uh what
it shows is the object starting really
slow and ending really slow and in
between it has this sort of fluid
movement. The object on the bottom just
doesn't feel real. Every single key
frame in this video, anytime I move
something, there's easing to it. Um
meaning that it starts slow, moves fast,
and ends slow. Ordinarily, if you're
getting started with After Effects, I
would not recommend jumping straight
into plugins because I think it's really
easy to get distracted and excited about
flashy plugins that seem to like solve
all of your your motion design problems.
But this is one plugin that I do think
is actually really helpful for all
motion designers, even if you're just
getting started. It's called Motion
Studio. It's designed by someone named
Matt, who has a YouTube channel called
Mount Moaph. A lot of times if you want
to change the ease of an object, you can
go into the graph editor and you can
move adjust these handles and it works,
but it's a little finicky and it's hard
to be precise with it. So this tool
allows you to dial in exactly what
easing quantity you want. So let's say
we want 50% on the out and 20% on the in
just sets it for you. Literally every
single object that I drop into After
Effects, I highlight the key frames and
I hit this little preset. Slow at the
beginning and then really slow at the
end. It's like a nice easy movement that
I figured works. There's a whole grid of
different functions that this thing does
and some of them are very elaborate, but
the basics are really great. I'd
recommend checking out Mount Moaph on
YouTube and also checking out Motion
Studio online. They have a whole
breakdown of everything it does, but
this is sort of the basics. So, another
really important principle that applies
really well to our YouTube videos is
timing. Really what that translates to
is making sure that the beats that
happen with what Marquez is saying line
up well with the movement that is on
screen.
&gt;&gt; I think that's the worst thing you can
do because they don't have a reason to
watch the thing you're making over the
thing that already exists.
&gt;&gt; So in this case, I want to make sure
that the spotlight and the eyeballs are
shifting uh focus from one side to the
other at the exact time that Marquez is
saying other person's content. I see so
many things online where what is being
talked about and what is being shown has
a half a second delay or even a second
delay and you really miss it. Like it's
actually really hard to follow. One of
the most important things in design in
general is being intentional about where
the viewer's eye goes. With motion
design, it's a lot to expect viewers to
focus on the words that someone is
saying and the visuals on top of that.
It's really easy to have those fight
each other and to make it actually
harder to understand the concept if
you're distracted by what's on screen.
It's like step one, so show the shapes.
Step two, introduce the YouTube video.
Step three, introduce the timeline. Step
four, reput the movement back just on
the video screen to drive home that this
is a copy of the original. So now you're
focused back on the shapes again. If we
were to just have the shapes move right
away with the timeline, then you'd sort
of be like taking that in and the shapes
and all that. But we're we're doing one
thing at a time. The next thing I want
people to do is focus on the differences
between these two. So, we get rid of
everything that's on YouTube on on the
timeline and everything. And we're just
showing the shapes. The little eyeballs
in in the middle are sort of just like a
fun element to keep this frame
interesting cuz otherwise it'd be like a
pretty boring frame. But we're going
even further. We're saying I want the
viewer's eyes to be on this one. And
then as Marquez is talking about the
original, I want the eyes to be on the
original. So, I'm literally putting a
spotlight on them. It's like I want it
to be as easy as possible for the viewer
to like have zero strain when they're
looking at this. Okay. Effects/plugins
that I use almost every day in After
Effects. Uh for main channel, uh number
one effect that I will slap onto
something to make it feel on brand uh
and give it a little bit more energy is
the glow effect. So, we're going
stylized glow and we're adding it. I
think with every effect there's a right
and wrong way to use it. And I think
with this one, it can look horrible if
you just like slap it on there. But a
lot of times I'll like duplicate it and
make it a little bit more intentional.
And that looks like way too much, but
we're going to dial it back.
I think a nice subtle glow goes a long
way. So a lot of times on the studio
channel we will use an effect called
turbulence displace paired with an
expression called wiggle which allows us
to have clean vector shapes but look a
little bit like handdrawn sort of uh
stop motiony. So the circle on the left
has a bit more of like a handdrawn look
to it and the circle on the right is is
just the plain shape. Basically what
turbulent displace is doing is it's uh
giving this shape a randomly generated
slight wobbly variation to it. So with
one effect you get sort of a smooth
wobbly egg. And then as we add more
effects you get more grunge and more
texture to it. And then we've we've set
the random seed to have um a wiggle
effect that basically posterized time
says every 3 seconds change this value.
And wiggle says uh every 3 seconds
change it by 150 points. uh if we
multiply that by three at different
sizes, you get uh this handdrawn look.
People shouldn't be thinking about all
the stuff that I'm doing in the
background. People shouldn't be thinking
about all these freaking key frames and
all this like easing that takes place to
make everything feel natural. It's like
it should just feel like information
that's easy to understand. People always
say this and it's really cheesy, but
good design is invisible. So, this
animation looks great and I'm really
happy with where it's at. But in order
for this to feel super polished, I think
we need to get some sound design on
here. So, I'm going to let Ellis do his
magic.
&gt;&gt; Thanks, Michael. Now, time to get into
our threepart series on doing sound and
videos. And this part one is possibly
the most important. It's music. Remember
that speaker video I did on this channel
like about a year ago? Well, the key to
making that video work was using Bbop
rhythm sections under all that stuff I
was saying. You've probably noticed a
lot of videos on this channel use
uptempo jazz rhythm sections as their
underscore. And it's not an accident.
You have seen tons of media that uses
those same Bbop drums and bass to get a
a frenetic sound, a behind-the-scenes
sound, an industrious sound, and that
sounds already in your viewer's head.
So, when you're picking music for your
video, you're not just picking a song
that you like. You're picking a song
that your viewers will personally
resonate with. So, where do you find
that track? Well, the answer is pretty
obvious. It's epidemicound.com. I don't
know you. I don't know what kind of
content you're trying to make, but I do
know whatever you need, it's on there.
You need something with some epic cinema
builds, it's on there. What about some
'90s grunge stuff, chat? You betcha.
Japanese classical music, it's on there.
I've seen it. They even have whatever
this is.
[Music]
Once you have your song, you can
download the stems and easily start
editing it. And if you're not
comfortable editing stems or you're just
getting started, Epidemic Sound has an
adapt feature that helps you easily make
a song fit your video. So much of the
music and sound effects we use here at
MKBHD come from Epidemic Sound. And now
you can get access to that great library
with the link in the description, which
will give you a 30-day free trial and
access to the MKBHD playlist we made for
you. And now that you know where to get
your sound and music for your next
video, we're going to throw it over to
the newest member of our team, Rufus,
who will hopefully save you hours of
time on your next production.
Hey, I'm Rufus. I record most of our
videos and I make sure the foundation
that Ellis gets when he goes in to do
that sound design is really strong. So,
why am I talking to you in the editing
video? You spend a lot of time in the
edit fixing bad audio. Really, like
everybody has this problem. This is I've
had this problem. Eric has had this
problem. Rich has had this problem. When
you get bad audio on your desk, you have
to spend a lot of time fixing it. And if
you had just placed your microphone,
which is free and not that hard, you can
save all of that time, all of that
strife. So, if you give me 5 minutes,
I'll show you how to do it. The key to
recording great sound is 90% putting the
microphone where it needs to go. The
rest of it is I'll cover it at the end
of the lightning round, but it you can
forget about it for now. Your brain when
you walk into a room is telling you kind
of automatically what to focus on. and
it's doing so subconsciously. A
microphone does not hear like that. So,
I'm going to teach you how to hear like
a microphone in order to think like a
microphone, to point like a microphone.
So, what do you want to hear? Well, in
our case, we want to hear the sound of
Marquez Brownley, who sat in this very
chair moments ago. Here at MKBHD, we
typically use for almost everything
shotgun microphones. These microphones,
if you watched our last video, you know
this, have a polar pattern, which is
very directional. It hears a lot like a
cone. But the thing is, the cone has a
limit. It has an end point. And a
microphone that's pointed the complete
wrong direction, but is really close to
me
is going to do a much better job of
hearing me than a microphone that's
across the room pointed straight at me.
But we're assuming that your microphone
is basically close enough. And for us,
that's kind of that's right on the edge
of frame. Like this one's literally
right here. That narrows it down to 180
degrees. The microphone is going to be
in front of Marquez somewhere cuz his
voice is going forward and that's what
we want to hear. So why is the
microphone not directly above him or
directly below him where you often see
shotgun microphones? Why is it right
here? Well, it's cuz we're in a room
with sounds like our air conditioner.
That air conditioner makes a noise. So
if we were below Marquez, we'd be
pointed up at that. So that knocks out
this bottom position. We also have a
light right here. The light makes a
noise. It has a fan in it and you can
hear that. So, we don't really want the
microphone to be right by the light. So,
that knocks out, you know, this chunk.
And lastly, it's been in front of you
the whole time, the desk, which you're
right, it it doesn't make any sound by
itself, but when Marquez speaks, his
voice can come out, bounce off of the
desk, and then into the microphone. We
don't want to record that. It's like
shooting Marquez through a mirror. So,
this position where the mic ended up
means the cone is pointed at what we
want to hear and isn't pointed
at what we don't want to hear. Quick
lightning round of some questions people
have asked is how loud should you be
recording? Uh, if you have a machine
that's recording sound, which we're
assuming that you do, it should have
levels on it that will tell you in decb
how loud you are. You want to be around
minus 20ish on average. And the absolute
loudest someone's going to talk should
be around minus12. If you're there,
you're pretty safe. and then it can go
even a little bit louder and you'll
still not be clipping. If you hit zero,
that's clipping and it sounds like this.
So, you don't want it. Two, generally
speaking, if you're recording dialogue,
which we're assuming you are, you want
to turn on a low cut. It might be on
your microphone, it might be on your
recording device, but that basically
means that wind noise, like sort of
bumping, rumbling, things like that.
doesn't completely get rid of them, but
it makes sure that you don't get so much
that it overwhelms the dialogue that
you're trying to record. Third, if
you're buying your first shotgun
microphone, stick to the bottom end. The
Audio Technica AT875R is a great
microphone. It's pretty cheap and it has
no reason to sound as good as it does.
It beats basically all of the
microphones in the mid-range in my
opinion, which means if you have that
microphone and you're using it well,
upgrading to a mid-range mic is not
going to make things sound much better.
upgrading to a flagship like the MKH416,
the Ships Semit 5U, the DPA 4017, you're
going to hear a difference, and that's
worth it. Those are microphones are
going to last you a lifetime. Only buy
those if you're ready to really take
things seriously. Everyone else, the
mid-range isn't really worth it. If
you're looking at sound recording and
this stuff looks big and scary and
things, it's as simple as pointing the
microphone at what you want to record
and not pointing it at what you don't
want to record. Every part of sound,
when you get down to it, is like that.
They're not that complicated. Do not let
anyone tell you it is more complicated
than that. So now your video sounds
good, but your video could sound better.
What is up gamers? Ellis here, your boy.
And today we're going to talk about
sound design. That's the part of the
production process where you take sounds
that you didn't record on set and you
put them in your video. And now I have a
feeling you're probably wondering one
big question. Rule number one, things
that move probably make a sound. To show
this, let's crack open the OnePlus 13S
intro we did on the main channel a
little while back.
[Applause]
So, this intro is full of motion.
There's just so much of it in here, but
let's focus on the four main moves that
the phone actually does. First, it turns
90 degrees to the left. Then, it turns
90° to the left again. And then it turns
90° to the left a third time. And then
the phone falls off screen. Seems pretty
simple, right? But how do we actually
know what those moves are supposed to
sound like? First off, how big is the
phone? The phone's huge. It's the
biggest thing on screen. For a lot of
it, it takes up pretty much the entire
frame, which means even though the phone
in real life is phones sized, in video
life, the phone is ginormous. And what a
ginormous things sound like. They're
big. They're low pitched. You could hear
they have mass. So, let's make the
phone's motion big and low pitched.
Easy. But why is it moving? There's no
actuator. There's no hand. There's no
machine turning the phone in the video.
So that means the only thing it's
touching is air, which is lucky for us
because air actually makes a lot of
sounds. It sounds like the right call is
probably a whoosh. But what kind of
whoosh? A big low pitched whoosh where
you can hear the mask.
All right, so remember that thing that
Michael said about easing and how it can
make stuff feel like natural and
lifelike? That's really important for us
as sound designers. Let's take a look at
how these phones actually move, right?
They're not constant. They start slow
and then they sort of accelerate in
their turns. And lucky for us, those big
whoosh sounds are perfect for that. They
go
fantastic, easy, breezy, beautiful
covergirl. But if you noticed, the last
move, that last 90° turn in this intro
does not have any easing on it.
Michael's computer glitched out. He
couldn't get the easing to work, and he
just said, "Let it ride." And so for the
last sound in this intro, I needed to
pick something that still sounded big
and massive, but in real life would have
no easing, just start and stop. And so
what better sound
than a boulder?
&gt;&gt; That's just a stupid
&gt;&gt; play this.
&gt;&gt; It's not just a boulder,
it's a rock.
&gt;&gt; Um, didn't you add a slide whistle in
here, too?
&gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Uh, I did do that. Um, I don't
know. I just kind of freestyled that
one. It was just sort of like intuition.
So, uh, I guess we should just move on
to the next rule.
Yes, you read that right. Silence
actually does make a sound. Don't
believe me? Look at how painful this is.
I told you silence actually does make a
sound in our brains because in real life
I promise you you have never actually
heard real silence before. Even the
quietest places on earth still have a
little bit of sound to them. And so if
you suck all the sound out of your video
at any given moment, it's going to feel
weird and awkward and painful and most
importantly not believable. So what do
sound designers use in those sound holes
that sounds like silence? Well, there
are two tricks we like to use. The first
one is called reverb.
Sound gets everywhere. It's kind of like
sand after the beach. And as sound
bounces off all the objects around you,
it's all going to make it back to your
ear. And we as humans perceive that as
this thing we call reverb. Our brains
actually get a lot of subconscious
information about the kind of space
something is happening in from the
reverb. I use this trick on the OnePlus
13S video. When we suck all the music
out and things get silent, I carry
through a lot of that silence with a
long reverb tail that lets you know,
hey, this big empty limitless space
we're in that exists and it sounds like
this.
The other trick we use is called
ambience, which is just like big fancy
speak for background noise. Background
noise is a super clutch way to inject
some believability into your sequence.
Check out this shot from our video about
the fastest car in the world from a
little bit ago.
&gt;&gt; That's crazy.
This shot looks fake. It looks like a
video game, but I promise it is 100%
real. There's no CGI. There's no
compositing. It's just kind of nutso.
And so, we needed to add a few sound
effects to kind of make people believe
that we actually got the shot. And I'll
tell you this, it wasn't the sound of
the Porsche that we added in post that
made it believable. It wasn't the sound
of the rimats that we added in post that
made it feel believable.
It was the sound of the birds that
weren't even there in real life. There
were not even birds that day when we
were shooting. But it's a big up high
shot. You see all this green tree grass
around you. No one even noticed I did
that, which means it worked.
All right, rule number three is use
sounds that actually mean stuff to your
audience. There are some sounds that get
stuck in your head in a cool emotional
way. And there's a great example of that
in this OnePlus intro. Take a look at
the very first thing that happens in
this intro, right? We watch the phone
get traced. It's very simple. It's just
this writing floating on screen that
traces the outline of the phone. What
sound does tracing sound like? There's a
bunch of obvious answers. There's pencil
on paper. There is pencil on cardboard.
There is marker on dry erase board.
There is chalkstick on chalkboard.
There's a million different writing
sounds that we all agree like, "Yep,
that's what writing sounds like. Heard
that before? Makes sense." But those
sounds won't make you feel something.
I think it's safe to assume that a lot
of you at home are around my age or
around Marquez's age. You grew up in
North America or Europe and you probably
watched something get traced on TV as a
kid about 10 million times.
And whether or not you knew that about
yourself, that's probably what midair
tracing sounds like in your heart. So,
what is actually in that famous Disney
Channel sound? It's mostly a roadside
flare and a bell tree. And that is
exactly what I did in this video.
&gt;&gt; You are watching Disney Channel.
&gt;&gt; No one batted an eye. No one questioned
it. No one even noticed. And that is the
goal of sound design. So, unless your
name is Erica Doll or Mark Manini, don't
try to be a hero. Don't go too hard.
You'll know you did your job well when
no one notices your job at all. So, I'm
gonna put my money where my mouth is and
actually use these techniques in the uh
video you're watching right now. So,
here's the final cut.
I'm Marquez and this is how I pick what
front glass from the iPhone 6. And so
learned about what Spot actually is. But
I've never regretted making a video just
for the views. I think most of the
videos we make, there's a bunch of
different reasons why I made it. But if
you want to go all the way to the far
end of the spectrum of this one we know
is going to get views. It's the iPhone
unboxing video. It's just one of those
things where people like seeing shiny
new things come out of boxes, and that's
fine. Actually, the audience is smart.
They can tell when the creator
especially is not incredibly excited
about a video. So, I think a lot of the
comments were like, "Yeah, this isn't
important or interesting. Why is this a
video?" And it's cool to see that
because they're picking up on exactly
how I'm feeling about the video, which
means I communicated it well. But also,
I didn't regret it because it still
performed the way we thought it would,
and it still got people to subscribe and
to see the channel and see the videos.
Even if they weren't having the most
in-depth thoughts after watching a video
about a new purple colored iPhone, they
could still subscribe.
Two main ways I can decide if a subject
is worth my audience's time. One is if
they have shown interest in it in the
past or two is if I'm interested in it
and I've been able to connect it to
things that my audience is interested in
the past. Usually I look forward by
looking backwards. So I'll give an
example. A video we did recently which
was reviewing the robotic hand. I
thought it was awesome and I was super
interested in it when I got to test it.
So that was a pretty good indicator for
me right off the bat. I've also done a
video in the past uh talking about uh
prosthetics, 3D printed prosthetics for
pets. And while the video didn't get a
ton of views or attention necessarily,
it was still really wellreceived and
people were interested in it. And I
thought it was a really fun video to
make. So when we looked at this new
thing, which is this robotic hand, okay,
it's new, it's different, but clearly
it's tech which the audience is
interested in. And the last time we
talked about potentially awesome
prosthetics that people can use, it also
went really well. So just finding those
connections to the past made it pretty
obvious that this would be a fun video
that would be good to make. And there
was also the excitement of tying it to a
certain other video another channel
made. So it was going to be fun no
matter what. There are some video
totally disconnected from like purchase
decisions. Usually when I make a video,
even if it seems like kind of
disconnected or a little bit out there,
you can in some way connect it to this
is the tech that's going to affect me as
a regular person in the future. So the
stuff that's like this is the super cool
tech behind like how skyscraper
elevators work. There's just no way for
me to connect it to you the viewer.
Those are the ones I just pass on. So
mistake I see a lot of newer creators
making specifically is to look at what
works on other channels and then just
try to copy it one for one. I think
that's the worst thing you can do
because they don't have a reason to
thing that already exists. So the more
you can make it your own interpretation
or the more you can bring in various
sources of inspiration the better. But
so I used to do a lot more list type
videos like top five this top 10 that
and they were great. So like format-wise
you could optimize for attention. You
count down from 5 to 1 people stay for
the whole video. You could pick lots of
different types of topics. It was just
kind of a free content spin a wheel
generator, just top five, insert
whatever you want here. But I stopped
doing a lot of those because I just felt
like they didn't uh provide as much
value as I was hoping. I was hoping to
help people learn stuff, uh, experience
stuff, feel like they know what it's
like to own a gadget before actually
buying it. And the top fives are more on
the pure entertainment value side of the
spectrum. And other channels just
started doing way more of them, and that
kind of became their thing. and I just
stopped doing top fives. I also think
YouTube is a treadmill and if you try to
chase past success over and over and
over, you end up kind of burning out a
little bit. And I think you should look
at what you enjoy making just as much as
what worked in the past on your channel.
So all of that.
Hey Olivia, you you did most of the
graphics on this video, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I did.
&gt;&gt; So So you should have a segment in this
video, right?
&gt;&gt; No.
