Out of all the professional video
editing software, Final Cut Pro should
be the easiest to work with, but there's
a few things that really trip people up.
So, today we're going to go through
those big hurdles, get them out of the
way so you can start cutting much more
effectively. First up is turning off
background rendering. You can actually
see it's happening right here. I want to
get that to stop. So, I'm going to go
into settings, go to playback, and just
turn off background render. Now, what is
this doing? This is basically for slower
computers. So, if you have something
older than an M1 Mac, maybe you want to
turn this on, but it's going to generate
huge, enormous files that fill up your
computer in an effort to make things a
little speedier. Modern Macs can handle
most footage that you throw at it. So,
this feature is on by default cuz it
used to make things easier for people
with slow computers. Now, I think it's
more of an advanced feature that should
be off by default and only turn it on if
you know you need it. Next, we want to
stop storing our files inside of the
library. So, I'm using a recent YouTube
video as an example. You can see there's
a lot going on in here. And if we take a
look at the library, notice that it's
only 11.4 megabytes. That's very small.
Now, there's a lot of reasons you might
want to keep your library small. And for
me, it's about file management,
simplicity, and also sharing that
library with my editor. It's small
enough that it can just be attached to
an email. So, you can see in the finder
that this project has a bunch of
different folders organizing either the
A-roll here, I've got the music here,
clips from another camera. I just want
to manage my clips manually for a ton of
different reasons. Then, we can also see
this is the cache. So, that's what the
render files were generating. And right
now, it's almost 1 GB. So, let's change
those settings on an existing file. I'm
going to go to the inspector up in the
top right. And on the left, you're going
to open up your browser. Now, you'll
select your library. In this case, it's
Hypershell. And then back in the
inspector on the right, we're going to
click modify settings. These are the
defaults where Final Cut likes to store
all the files. Now I want to make some
changes. For media, I'm just going to
click library and instead I'll say
choose. And then in the file picker,
I'll just navigate to the folder where
I'm storing my library. And I choose
that. And then I'll do the exact same
thing for cache. Change it from in
library to my project folder titled
Hypershell. And now when I click okay,
everything is going to be inside of that
folder when I look for it in the finder.
And the advantage of storing your cache
locally, like these are all temporary
files. You don't need these, especially
after you're done editing. Right now,
this is 4 GB at any time I want to make
some space, I can just delete that file,
and I've cleared up some room on my
computer. You can also delete the cache
when the library is open by going to
delete generated library files. But the
nice thing about organizing it in the
Finder is once you're done working on
all the projects, you can just delete
all the cache files for all of them
without opening every single library.
Put all your A-roll in a compound clip.
So, you know what I mean by A-roll,
right? That's when you're talking to
camera like I am right now. This is
A-roll. Or in this example, I'm talking
to camera walking on a treadmill wearing
robot legs. So, what I can do now is
open up that compound clip by double
clicking. And anything I want to change
about it, let's say I want to make all
of my A-roll black and white, for
example. Now, when I go back to my main
timeline, all those clips are black and
white. It's been applied everywhere. The
same adjustments carry through to each
time I'm using a clip from that A-roll.
So, let's see how we did it. So, all
I've done is dropped my one long talking
clip onto the timeline. You can see it's
in log format now. There's no color
adjustments. Nothing's happened. First
thing I'm going to do is rightclick and
go to new compound clip. You can name it
if you want to stay organized. And now
we can just start editing. Since this is
a very rough version, I'll just look at
the audio waveforms and cut around them
so that it just shows me all of the
talking sections. And I want to make the
same adjustments to everything so it
matches, right? I could drag a custom L
onto one of them. select my stallman let
to transform from log to recx 709. The
link is down below and it's especially
good if you shoot Canon Lumix or on your
iPhone if you're shooting Apple log.
It's very helpful. And then like I could
copy that and then I could select
everything else and I could say paste.
But now I've accidentally applied it
twice here. Like this is why you don't
do it this way. It can get complicated.
Undo. Instead I'm going to open up my
A-roll. Click on it once. Drop the L
just one time. Now the whole clip has
been edited. And when I go back to the
main timeline, look at that. All of it
has the exact same adjustments. Same
thing goes for audio mixing. So, I'll
add a limiter that applies to the whole
A-roll. This is how you should be
mastering your A-roll is within one
compound clip. Or how about the remove
attributes shortcut. When I was copy
pasting those color effects a minute
ago, I ran into a common problem. Let's
recreate it. Let's get rid of that L in
my compound clip. So, now everything in
the timeline is log again. Let's just
pretend I did want to apply it to
individual clips. So, I copied it,
selected everything except that clip and
pasted it. Now, they all have the same
effect on them. But now, what happens if
I want to make a change? I want to add
another L for my iPhone film pack. It's
designed to go on top of recx 709 and
just add a little more personality to
the color. So, now I've got two LUTs. I
copy, select all, I paste. Oh, and now
look at this. I'm like double Luting
everything. I just select everything
that I want to apply this to. And here's
the shortcut. It is commandshiftx.
This opens up remove attributes. In case
you don't want to use the shortcut, I
will show you where it is in the menu.
You go to edit, remove attributes, and
this gives you the opportunity to remove
any attributes you've got on here like
transform or stabilization, whatever it
is. I clear everything away that I'm
about to replace. And then I paste it on
top. Now I'll have my two LUTs on top of
all of my clips and they match again. So
that's it. It's kind of simple, but it
took me a long time to find this one.
Before you paste any attribute, clear
all of the relevant old ones. I think
probably every single YouTube project
I've created for the last few years has
had at least one tool made by Motion
VFX. Like here, found one right away.
Zoom in. I use this all the time. But
let's check out their latest brand new
tool that doesn't even need Final Cut
Pro to run. It's called M Upscaler AI.
And they've been working on this for a
long time. Basically, can take any of
your footage, upscale it locally on your
computer, and massively improve the
sharpness. Let's test it out. So, I've
got a bunch of clips from this project,
and oh no, the resolution. It's only
720, 720, and this one's only 540. All
right, let's see what M upscaler can do.
All you need to do is drag and drop, and
you can do it in batches. And check it
out. You can even go all the way up to
8K. And again, since this runs locally
on your machine, it means that you're
not spending credits. Like, you don't
have to pay per time that you process
it. You just purchase it once and then
it keeps running whatever you need to.
And as we go, it is previewing it. So,
if you just click, it turns it off.
Check out those giant pixels. You can
actually see the squares and on. So then
I click start. My computer works on it
for a while. Go get a coffee. And then
I've gone from 540 all the way up to 4K.
And we go from pixelated mush to visible
detail. Motion V effects is an essential
part of my workflow. And m upscaler AI
is an amazing new tool in the toolkit.
So even if it's not the specific tool
you need, go check out Motion BX.
There's a link in the description below.
There are so many things that you can
put to use. There's titles, there's
transitions, and if you head to that
link fast enough, they're having an
insane sale for just a few more days. If
you've watched my videos, you'll
definitely recognize them. So, thanks
again to Motion FX for sponsoring this
video. Transform LUTs should be the last
step of color grading. Now, there are a
few steps into color grading. Let's do
it. All right, so I'm going to copy
these two LUTs we have. They're useful.
Select all, remove those attributes, and
we're going to do the color grading
inside our compound clip. So, we've got
our transform L turning it into rec 709.
And we've got our film L giving it some
life, but there's something still a
little bit off about the color. For one
thing, looking at my waveform over here,
I want the whites to be a little bit
brighter. And also see that like the
whites of the wall are a little warmer
than I'd like them to be. So, what might
you do? You might open up your color
tools. You'd select your favorite tool.
For me, that's color wheels. And you'd
grab the relevant wheel. For me, I'm
going to grab highlights right now. And
just slightly cool them down. So, in
this example, it basically works fine
cuz we're not making big adjustments.
But on more complex grades, I'm making a
big mistake because I'm putting my color
wheels last. The whole point of shooting
in log in a flat profile is to have a
lot more room for making corrections. It
opens up whole new worlds of color
flexibility. You need to be adding those
color wheels to the very beginning. See,
when I did that, that it makes a bigger
adjustment cuz it's getting closer to
the root of your image. It's almost like
working on the RAW file. So, we're going
to reset that. And this is where you
want to make your color adjustments.
They have a much more photochemical type
effect. So even moving exposure like
grabbing these midtones looks much more
accurate to an exposure shift where
again let's move them on top. And now if
I were to move my midtones up and down,
see how it like looks completely faded
or it starts to clip the blacks. Putting
your color adjustments before your
transform L is essential. Don't forget
it. Check if your log footage is rec 709
or WC 2020. I'm including this tip
especially for iPhone shooters, although
it can apply to other cameras. But let's
take a look at how Apple log behaves
when you're applying LUTs. So, we are
going to grab our custom L, drag it on,
select from the brand new Stallman
transform LUTs, and this is Apple log
one. So, we're going to use Apple log
standard. Now, check out the look of
this footage. You might say, Tyler, you
made some terrible LUTs. This skin tone
looks magenta. Everything looks bad. I
mean, maybe that's the real reason I'm
including this because I get so many
emails asking like, "Why did the colors
look weird?" Very simple fix. The input
for the original Apple log from iPhone
15 or 16 is wreck 2020 and that will fix
the whole thing. Basically, Apple log is
prepared for an HDR workflow even though
most of us don't use it. So, you just
need to do this color space conversion
from 709 to 2020. Now, if you are
working with an iPhone 17, it's a little
bit different. It shoots an Apple log 2
which you know well it's flat looks
exactly the same. Let's drag a custom L
over here. Select the Stallman log Apple
log 2 transform. Comes in three
different flavors and right out of the
gate it looks correct. You can see they
effectively match each other. Apple log
Apple log 2. Now there is an Apple color
space that is wider than rec 2020 but it
doesn't make a huge difference. The
biggest effect in your color grading
workflow is this. For Apple log 2, you
select rec 709. And for Apple log 1, you
select recre 2020. I know this is kind
of mundane, but a lot of people get
tripped up on it, so hopefully that
helped somebody out there. Label your
cameras before making a multi-cam clip.
Here's another one you can file under.
It took me way too long to figure out.
Okay, so let's say you recorded from
multiple cameras, like I do so often.
Here's an overhead and an A-roll cam.
They all need to sync together, so I'm
going to rightclick and say new multicam
clip. Usually I don't even bother to
name these and I'll let it synchronize
real quick. So let's open up the
multiam. Final Cut is usually great at
this. But what's going on here? Like
I've got one long clip and the short
ones in the middle. And so even though
I'm actually only using two cameras
here, I've got four tracks. I mean I
could do simple fixes. Like I could just
drag this up. But let's say I've got a
lot more in this project. Let's say it
was more complicated. Here's the correct
way to do things. Select all the clips
from the same camera. In this case,
there's just two of them. And go to the
inspector over here in the top right. Go
to info and at the bottom of your
inspector panel, you have to make sure
you're inside of settings and then
you'll see camera name. And you're just
going to want to name this anything. I
mean, in my case, it's going to be
a-roll. You could just say cam A1, two,
doesn't matter. Just name it something.
So, I'm going to select the other two
and name them overhead. And now I select
all of those clips. Again, rightclick,
new multicam, click okay. And look how
organized it is right out of the gate. I
don't need to fix anything. My four
files are in two tracks and I can just
now cut between them like a regular
multicam. Change key frames from smooth
to linear. You only know that there's a
problem with smooth versus linear key
frame adjustments if you've tried to fix
them before. So, if you haven't, you're
in for a treat. I think Jesse Driftwood
taught me this one. So, here's the
animation I've got right now where these
two logos appear. Let's say I want to
zoom in on one of them afterwards. I
want to zoom into Photoshop and then
move over to the Affinity logo. I'm
going to use an adjustment clip for all
this. I'm just going to put it on top of
all of these areas and key frame using
that. That's not the tip, although
adjustment clips are great. So, I add a
position key frame here. I move forward
a few frames, add another and a zoom key
frame, and then I just make my
adjustments. So, I, you know, kind of
move things around. So, I'm zooming into
the PS Photoshop logo. Let's take a look
at what that feels like. Okay, that's no
good. Look at this. It does this weird
like hook around. It overshoots the
location and comes back. That's not what
I want. I just want to move to the logo.
Okay, what's wrong here? To fix it, I'm
going to right click. Again, this is all
happening on the adjustment layer. So,
I'm going to say show video animation.
And you can see my key frames are right
here. So, I could just move those around
if you wanted to. But to fix this
weirdness, I have to click on this
dropown next to all, select position,
then rightclick my key frame and change
it from smooth to linear. And I have to
do this on each individual key frame. As
far as I know, this is the only way to
do this, which is insane. I don't know
why the default is smooth. It makes no
sense. Now, let's play through the whole
animation again. And look at that. It
just moved. A linear movement is what
we're looking for because the zoom is
linear. So, why isn't the position I
don't know. Anyway, don't get me started
on why this happens. But that's the fix.
Show video animation position. Change it
to linear. This is a tip I shouldn't
have to be giving. It makes no sense.
instead of key frames. Sometimes you
want the slide transition. But by the
way, there's a better way to animate.
Often I'm not even using key frames. So
let's delete that adjustment layer. And
since this is a complete project, I'll
show you how I actually animated it. So
these first two, this is a motion VFX
effect. This is just a slide transition.
All you need to do is click on
transitions over here on the right.
Search for slide. It comes built in with
Photoshop. And just drag it on top. And
you see it looks wrong right now because
it's sliding in. In the inspector, I
need to change it from slide in to slide
out. And that's it. Now I've got an
animation. Again, the way that I was
showing you before, it's going down to
hide under the desk. And it also moves
faster. So, I'm just going to make that
a quicker transition. And there we go.
Hopefully, we cleared up a few
bottlenecks that might have been slowing
you down in Final Cut Pro. But if that
wasn't enough Final Cut Pro tips, I've
got so many more. There's a whole
playlist of them, in fact, cuz I spend a
lot of time in this app and I know it
pretty well. So, if you check out those
next videos, I think you'll find
something helpful. Thanks for watching,
guys, and I'll see you in the next one.
